Technical Edit of Baldy Release (#1570)
cntt-n/CNTT: doc/gov/chapters/chapter09.md

# 9. Adoption
<p align="right"><img src="../figures/bogo_sdc.png" alt="scope" title="Scope" width="35%"/></p>

## Table of Contents
* [9.1 Introduction](#9.1)
  * [9.1.1 Background](#9.1.1)
  * [9.1.2 Field Trial Purpose](#9.1.2)
  * [9.1.3 Purpose of this Document Section](#9.1.3)  
* [9.2 Adoption Strategy](#9.3)
  * [9.2.1 Expectations from Operators](#9.3.1)
  * [9.2.2 Expectations from Vendors](#9.3.2)
  * [9.2.3 Expectations from Industry](#9.3.3)
* [9.3 Adoption Roadmaps](#9.4)
* [9.4 Transition Plan](#9.2)
  * [9.4.1 Conformance Levels](#9.2.1)
  * [9.4.2 Exception Types](#9.2.2)
  * [9.4.3 Transition Framework](#9.2.3)
* [9.5 CNTT Field Trial Approach] (#9.5) 

<a name="9.1"></a>
## 9.1 Introduction

> It is vitally important for the success of the CNTT mission to have as many working CNTT compliant solutions, including infrastructure and VNFs/CNFs designs from the vendor community as possible. Obviously, there will be solutions that will not be able to be fully aligned with CNTT requirements, however, the intention is to make the CNTT reference architectures and implementations map to the real world so to make compliance attractive to the broader community. Therefore, a transition plan, an adoption strategy, and adoption roadmap needs to be agreed on within the CNTT community. The intention of this document is to detail the strategy for broader adoption in the larger telecom ecosystem. 

Reviewer: Typo: "... and VNFs/CNFs designs ..." ---> "... and VNF/CNF designs ..."

Reviewer 2: fixed

> It is vitally important for the success of the CNTT mission to have as many working CNTT compliant solutions, including infrastructure and VNFs/CNFs designs from the vendor community as possible. Obviously, there will be solutions that will not be able to be fully aligned with CNTT requirements, however, the intention is to make the CNTT reference architectures and implementations map to the real world so to make compliance attractive to the broader community. Therefore, a transition plan, an adoption strategy, and adoption roadmap needs to be agreed on within the CNTT community. The intention of this document is to detail the strategy for broader adoption in the larger telecom ecosystem. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is vitally important for the success of the CNTT mission to have as many working CNTT compliant solutions, including infrastructure and VNF/CNF designs from the vendor community as possible. Obviously, there will be solutions that will not be able to be fully aligned with CNTT requirements, however, the intention is to make the CNTT reference architectures and implementations map to the real world so to make compliance attractive to the broader community. Therefore, a transition plan, an adoption strategy, and adoption roadmap needs to be agreed on within the CNTT community. The intention of this document is to detail the strategy for broader adoption in the larger telecom ecosystem. 
```

<a name="9.1.1"></a>
### 9.1.1 Background

> The Cloud iNfrastructure Telco Taskforce (CNTT) is building a set of infrastructure standards to be implemented within telcos to improve cost effectiveness and speed of delivery of Virtual Network Functions. As part of the standards development, the organization has built a Reference Model (RM) on which Reference Implementation (RI) and Reference Conformance (RC) standards have been defined.  For CNTT to ensure value add to Telco industry operators, suppliers, and end user customers, it is running field tests to validate the feasibility, utility, and effectiveness of its methods (RI/RC standards).

Reviewer: I don't think CNTT is a "standards" body.  Also, I think we are not using "Virtual Network Functions" by itself. 

Suggest, "The Cloud iNfrastructure Telco Taskforce (CNTT) is developing a set of cloud infrastructure specifications to be implemented within telcos to improve the cost effectiveness and speed of deployment of cloud network functions. As part of the specifications development, ..." ( "cloud network functions" may be replaced with "VNFs/CNFs" or "network workloads" or "telco workloads" or other suitable terms.

> The Cloud iNfrastructure Telco Taskforce (CNTT) is building a set of infrastructure standards to be implemented within telcos to improve cost effectiveness and speed of delivery of Virtual Network Functions. As part of the standards development, the organization has built a Reference Model (RM) on which Reference Implementation (RI) and Reference Conformance (RC) standards have been defined.  For CNTT to ensure value add to Telco industry operators, suppliers, and end user customers, it is running field tests to validate the feasibility, utility, and effectiveness of its methods (RI/RC standards).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cloud iNfrastructure Telco Taskforce (CNTT) is developing a set of cloud infrastructure specifications to be implemented by telcos to improve the cost effectiveness and speed of delivery of cloud based network functions. As part of the specifications development, the organisation has developed the Reference Model (RM) and Reference Architecture (RA) specifications on which the Reference Implementation (RI) and the Reference Conformance (RC) specifications have been defined.  For CNTT to ensure value add to the Telco operators, suppliers, and end user customers, it is running field tests to validate the feasibility, utility, and effectiveness of its RI & RC specifications.
```

<a name="9.1.2"></a>
### 9.1.2 Field Trial Purpose

> In the truest form, adoption of a standard is an indication of it’s success within an industry. Standards developed must be interactively tested in multiple environments or “trialed” to ensure they are practicable, functional, and operative. Without running trials to validate the CNTT approach, standards may not provide intended value across a sufficient spectrum of participating entities to be widely adopted. The intentions of these field trials is as follows:

Reviewer: we should replace "standards" with "specifications"

> In the truest form, adoption of a standard is an indication of it’s success within an industry. Standards developed must be interactively tested in multiple environments or “trialed” to ensure they are practicable, functional, and operative. Without running trials to validate the CNTT approach, standards may not provide intended value across a sufficient spectrum of participating entities to be widely adopted. The intentions of these field trials is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the truest form, adoption of a specification is an indication of it’s success within an industry. Specifications developed must be interactively tested in multiple environments or “trialed” to ensure they are practicable, functional, and operative. Without running trials to validate the CNTT approach, specifications may not provide intended value across a sufficient spectrum of participating entities to be widely adopted. The intentions of these field trials is as follows:
```

1)	Demostrate the partnership approach to validate CNTT community is adopting a consistent approach
2)	Validate the RI-1 specifications and RC-1 test suite, not VNFs or NFVI’s

<a name="9.1.3"></a>
### 9.1.3 Purpose of this Document Section
The purpose of this document is to define the goals/outcomes, expectations, and roles necessary to support the CNTT release trials. The document will define/discuss the following:

*	Purpose of field trials
*	Goals/desired outcomes of the field trials
*	Success indicators 
*	Intentions and expectations
*	Action plan
*	Resource requirements
*	Metrics definition

<a name="9.2"></a>
## 9.2 Adoption Strategy

<a name="9.3.1"></a>
### 9.2.1 Expectations from Operators

<a name="9.2.2"></a>
### 9.2.2 Expectations from Vendors

<a name="9.2.3"></a>
### 9.3.3 Expectations from Industry

<a name="9.3"></a>
## 9.3 Adoption Roadmap

<a name="9.4"></a>
## 9.4 Transition Plan

> A Transition plan is needed to address technology components that do not presently conform to CNTT mandates, and hence require explicit direction on how the situation will be treated in the present, as well as plans for the future.  The plans might be that the component will be added to the CNTT corpus in a future release, or remain outside of the main body, depending on the nature of the given technology or system.  For example, a technology might be propriatary to a specific vendor, yet has become a de facto standard  would not be part of the reference, but might be referred to due to its wildspread adoption by the industry.

Reviewer: something is missing: "... yet has become a de facto standard  would not be part of the reference ..."

Reviewer 2: done

> A Transition plan is needed to address technology components that do not presently conform to CNTT mandates, and hence require explicit direction on how the situation will be treated in the present, as well as plans for the future.  The plans might be that the component will be added to the CNTT corpus in a future release, or remain outside of the main body, depending on the nature of the given technology or system.  For example, a technology might be propriatary to a specific vendor, yet has become a de facto standard  would not be part of the reference, but might be referred to due to its wildspread adoption by the industry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Transition plan is needed to address technology components that do not presently conform to CNTT principles, and hence require explicit direction on how the non-conformance will be addressed in the present, as well as plans for the future.  The plans might be that the component will be added to the CNTT corpus in a future release, or never be included in the CNTT corpus, depending on the nature of the given technology or system.  For example, a vendor's  proprietary technology would not be part of the reference but might be referred to due to its widespread adoption by the industry.
```

> The transition plan described here informs application designers on how the Reference Compliance, and ultimately the industry certification programs will manage and document exceptions encountered during the qualification process.  The actions taken might include flagging warnings and potential errors caused by the variance from the CNTT conformance levels, which could prevent issuance of a certification badge.

Reviewer: what is "qualification process"?

Reviewer 2: I tried to clarify a bit @pgoyal01 hope it is better now.

<a name="9.4.1"></a>
### 9.4.1 Conformance Levels

> - **Fully Conformant**: VNFs/CNFs or NFVI written and designed to be fully conformant to CNTT specifications with no use of any of the allowed Exceptions.

Reviewer: NFVI ---> cloud infrastructure

Reviewer 2: done

> - **Fully Conformant**: VNFs/CNFs or NFVI written and designed to be fully conformant to CNTT specifications with no use of any of the allowed Exceptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fully Conformant**: VNFs/CNFs or NFVI designed and developed to be fully conformant to CNTT specifications that do not use of any of the allowed Exceptions.
```

- **Conformant with Exceptions**: VNFs/CNFs or NFVI written and designed to be conformant to CNTT specifications with one or more of the allowed Exceptions used.

<a name="9.4.2"></a>
### 9.4.2 Exception Types

- **Technology Exceptions** : The use of specific technologies that are considered non conformant to CNTT principles (such as PCIe Direct Assignment, exposure of hardware features to VNFs/CNFs).

> - **Version Exceptions**: Using versions of  Software components, , APIs, or Hardware that are different from the ones specified in the specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Version Exceptions**: Using versions of  Software components, APIs, or Hardware that are different from the specifications.
```

<a name="9.4.3"></a>
### 9.4.3 Transition Framework

#### NFVI Transition Plan Framework 

> Exceptions will be clearly recorded in a given Reference Architecture's Appendix.  That document provides guidance to NFVI vendors of what Exceptions will be allowed in each CNTT release. **Figure 2** below demonstrates the concept.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exceptions will be clearly recorded in a given Reference Architecture's Appendix.  That document provides guidance to NFVI vendors of what Exceptions will be allowed in each CNTT release. **Figure 1** below demonstrates the concept.
```

- It is expected that over time, as technology matures, there will be a decreasing numbers of Exceptions allowed in CNTT releases.

> - For each CNTT Release, the NFVI can be either:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For each CNTT Release, the NFVI can be either Fully Conformant or Conformant with Exceptions.
```

>   - **Fully Conformant**: Supports the Target Reference Architecture without any exceptions. There should be a technology choice in RA to support RM Exceptions (However, none of the Exceptions allowed in RA has been used).

Reviewer: Conformance was defined in 9.4.1 -- these definitions of Fully Conformant and Conformant with Exceptions are duplicate and should be deleted.

  - **Conformant with Exceptions**: One or more of the allowed exceptions in RA are used.

<p align="center"><img src="../figures/nfvi_transition.png" alt="Transition" title="NFVI Transition Plan" width="70%"/></p>

> <p align="center"><b>Figure 2:</b> Transition Plan for NFVI solutions within CNTT</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p align="center"><b>Figure 1:</b> Transition Plan for NFVI solutions within CNTT</p>
```

#### VNF/CNF Transition Plan Framework 

> Exceptions will be clearly recorded in the appropriate specification Appendix which will service as guidance to VNF/CNF application vendors of what Exceptions will be allowed in each CNTT release. **Figure 1** below demonstrates the concept.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exceptions will be clearly recorded in the appropriate specification Appendix which will service as guidance to VNF/CNF application vendors of what Exceptions will be allowed in each CNTT release. **Figure 2** below demonstrates the concept.
```

- It is expected that over time, as technology matures, there will be a decreasing numbers of Exceptions allowed in CNTT releases.
- For each CNTT Release, VNF/CNF can be either:
  - **Fully Conformant**: No Exception used.
  - **Conformant with Exception**: One or More of the allowed Exceptions in the Reference Model have been used.  

<p align="center"><img src="../figures/vnf_cnf_transition.png" alt="Transition" title="VNF/CNF Transition Plan" width="70%"/></p>

> <p align="center"><b>Figure 1:</b> Transition Plan for VNFs/CNFs within CNTT</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p align="center"><b>Figure 2:</b> Transition Plan for VNFs/CNFs within CNTT</p>
```

<a name="9.5.1.3"></a>
#### 9.5.1.3 Pre-trials activities

Prior to the comencement of any field trials, the CNTT community will define an operational plan, secure resources, and provide all designated contact information required to support trial participants.  As the results of the trails may produce data and information that could be considered sensitive by participants, CNTT will establish standard data set requirements and secure collection methods to ensure participant privacy protection.

<a name="9.5.1.4"></a>
#### 9.5.1.4 Expectations of Trials Participants

Trials participants will be expected to commit to establishing an RA-1 compliant NFVI, in whatever manner best suited to the participant. The first step is for the participant to secure appropriate environment space from pre-existing space, newly built space or securing LaaS.  The environment can exist in any mix of participant owned, private or community hardware infrastructure.

> Second, the participant will build/setup/configure the environment space using their preferred method. This can include the use of a cookbook, automated install, and/or build from RA-1/RI-1 requirements and specifications. CNTT RI-1 Chapter 3 (https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/blob/master/doc/ref_impl/cntt-ri/chapters/chapter03.md ) documentation provides the matching RI-1 requirements for the build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Second, the participant will build/setup/configure the environment space using their preferred method. This can include the use of a cookbook, automated install, and/or build from RA-1/RI-1 requirements and specifications. CNTT [RI-1 Chapter 3](../cntt-ri/chapters/chapter03.md ) documentation provides the matching RI-1 requirements for the build.
```

Trials participants will be expected to commit to establishing an RA-1 compliant NFVI, in whatever manner best suited to the participant. The first step is for the participant to secure appropriate environment space from pre-existing space, newly built space or securing LaaS.  The environment can exist in any mix of participant owned, private or community hardware infrastructure.

> Second, the participant will build/setup/configure the environment space using their preferred method. This can include the use of a cookbook, automated install, and/or build from RA-1/RI-1 requirements and specifications. CNTT [RI-1 Chapter 3](../cntt-ri/chapters/chapter03.md ) documentation provides the matching RI-1 requirements for the build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Second, the participant will build/setup/configure the environment space using their preferred method. This can include the use of a cookbook, automated install, and/or build from RA-1/RI-1 requirements and specifications. CNTT [RI-1 Chapter 3](../ref-impl/cntt-ri/chapters/chapter03.md ) documentation provides the matching RI-1 requirements for the build.
```
